Hello and welcome back to the of today's hands of course.
And today we're finally going to start visualizing.
All right let's do it this time.
Let's get into it straight away.
So we've got our data set here.
We discussed what we're doing already how we're looking for correlation between variables and seeing
which variables can perhaps predict that a person will take up a term deposit.
And today we need to go to our sheet sheet 1 we here let's click this button and this takes it to a
completely different workspace.
So this workspace the data workspace is where you load the data.
This workspace is where we actually create zation in Tablo.
So I know it might be a bit confusing but don't worry you'll get used to it.
It's very intuitive it's all drag and drop and very straightforward as well.
So without too much preamble we're just going to start visualizing and you will get the hang of what
we're doing as we move along.
All right.
So we're going to take over HBOS which you can see here on the left dimensions and measures and by the
way you also notice that some things you will get a hang of some things you probably won't because Tablo
is even though it's a very intuitive tool a simple tool.
It does require a bit of learning and but that's like that's a topic for a separate course like we have
a course on Tablo your work work and to explore that or there's tons of materials free materials online
where you can learn Tablo bits and pieces of how to do things in Tablo.
You can also take other courses.
There are lots of courses available to help you.
So let's have a look and see how we go and take this variable Y which is the variable we're trying to
predict and we'll put it in color.
And next what we're going to do is we're going to look at.
We're going to build a like a way for us to position and allow us to compare how a certain variable
works I'm just going to check here we're going to start with a variable called contact whereas contact
there is contact.
If we go back here is that until there is contact communication type.
We call them by cell cellular.
Do we call them on their mobile or on their land line.
In the last context of the current campaign.
All right.
So let's have a look.
We're going to take a contact and we're going to put it.
We're going to put contact in to just drag contex into columns so you can see here cellular telephone
and then we're going to just take a number of records.
So that's the number of rows in each of those categories.
We're going to drag it into rows over here.
As you can see it's telling us right away it's very smart.
It's already built a bar chart for us.
Let's make some space here and telling us how many people were contacted.
So we're going to take this on a Windows hold down control on a Mac hold down command to copy it.
So if I just drag the whole thing down you'll see that right next to the modeless is just like a little
square or rectangle if but if you hold down command on a Mac or control the windows there's a plus meaning
that you're copying this and copy it into a label.
Drag it into a label.
Now all of a sudden we have a label which tells us all right how many people did we actually contact.
By the way if you want to change the colors you can click Edit colors and you can change them more here.
So just click now and you can change it to a bowl or whatever but I'm just going to keep our color current
color.
All right so it tells us that we contacted on cellular and contacted about 26000 people of them.
Three thousand eight hundred fifty three said yes to the term deposit.
Eventually did subscribe to the term deposit.
And then 20 2291 said no.
And out of the landline 787 said yes and $14000 rediscount said no.
OK.
So that doesn't tell us much because we can't really compare them.
So which one is better is it better to call in mobile or is it better to call it a lot like who who
is more likely to say yes.
So we currently compared them right here because they are different in size right.
Because this this bar is generally bigger so we can really tell what the percentage of people we called
here is greater than the percentage of people we called here or not.
So that's exactly what we're going to do.
We're going to introduce the percentages so we're going to convert this from just a sound to a percentage
so click the dropdown and click quick table calculation percentage of total.
And then you go to we're going to click this dropdown again and we're going so I compute using table
down instead of table across is now calculating the percentage several down.
And to illustrate what it's calculated we're going to and I'll take this again and again move it to
label holding down command and control so we copying it into here.
And this time it's going to the label because it's different because we've already made modifications
and so this one is the one for modifications.
Absolute value is the percentage.
And here we're going to click Format when you go to our numbers we get to that percentage and we're
going to change the decimal places too.
Yeah let's just do zero decimal places for now we'll change it back if we need to.
So there we go.
So that should be a bit better now bit better formatted.
And so now we can see that the total in both cases is 100 percent right.
And for for our reference we still have our previous label here which says how many people we actually
contacted.
Absolute values are referenced here in the 22000 or 91 three thousand three hundred fifty three.
But now we've converted this table into percentage table.
And so this is what we're we going to be doing we're going to be just comparing visually what is better.
You know what percentage is the high percentage or what percentage which which would approach Celera
or a mobile or landline has a higher conversion rate.
So in the case of mobile 15 percent of people out of their respective absolute value here 15 percent
of people said yes eventually and out of the landline only 5 percent people said yes eventually out
of the absolute number here.
And that way we can compare them side by side because they are not there they are no longer relative
there they're no longer absolute value they're in percentage terms so we can make this comparison.
And so next time when we contact someone it's pretty obvious that if we have an opportunity to call
on mobile we should call mobile because it looks like people are more likely to respond.
Yes it might be like the reason for it might be you know maybe people are more friendly on mobile or
maybe just the people who still use landline are not that interested in our product and the people who
were contacted by mobile maybe they just don't have a landline.
And that way we'll just pick out those people that have mobile on their college rather than landline.
So the underlying fact the underlying real world reason for it can vary.
But what we can see from the data is disputable.
We can see that this percentage is higher than this one an's numbers are quite high.
Also it doesn't look like just a random error it doesn't feel like this happened randomly It looks like
a trend pattern.
That's what we're looking for patterns.
So there you go that's our first analysis of age one variable.
How do you feel this is this is what I call what I personally call visual data mining.
We're using a visual tool to extract insights from data through through site through our eyes rather
like through images rather than performing analysis.
And this is like performing complex machine learning type of analysis.
And this is what I mentioned at the very start that the way we're going to approach this problem like
this problem is this problem here is a classic problem for data sets.
And usually the way it's solved is through machine learning through applying some sort of machine learning
algorithm to predict this variable.
And that's what you will do and learn in the Python part of the course and the next part of the course
which is dedicated to introducing you to machine learning.
What I wanted to show you here is that even complex problems like this we can still solve not or not
as perfectly or as amazingly as you could do with machine learning but we can still get the insights
into these problems with very simple tools.
It took us it took us like five or 10 minutes to set this resolution up.
And as you'll see in the next tutorials we will punch out like another five at least of these very very
quickly based on what we already have.
But the underlying point is that machine learning is great and it's always good to go down that path
but also the whole just idea of data science is much broader than just machine learning and you can
use visualization tools like Tablo not just to create beautiful visuals but also to perform data mining
and get insights very very quickly.
And you know act on them and make recommendations based on those insights.
So there we go.
That's our start into the world of data mining and congressional making your first step in the next
tutorial will continue.
I will quote you there and until then enjoy Davison's.